This document acts a user guide to those wanting to review the Opportunity Youth project information

The document also acts as an accompanying notes to the project to enable readers to understand how the 
various tasks were approached

Deliverable 1 - Produce a map that visualizes which parts of King County are a part of South King County;

Method 
1.1 We web scraped zip codes for the Washington area from www.zipcodestogo.com
1.2 A data frame was created to illustrate the city and zip codes only
1.3 From this data frame we extracted zip codes from cities in South King Countyinto a list.  
1.4 Next we imported the tract shape file from the project directory giving us access to the geometry of the areas
of interest. (**ADD path**)
1.5 The dataframe we created stored data as strings. In order for us to manipulate the GEOID this was information was
converted into an integers.
1.6 We then imported the South king county data and queried out all the unique 'trct' codes into a list. 
1.7 We added a new column to our shape file identifying all the rows that the GEOID included one of our unique 'trct' codes.
This gave us a table that showed which GEOID represented the South King County Areas.
1.8 This data was plotted to show the required area of South King County within King County.



Deliverable 2 - Create an update of the estimated number of OY in South King County. In addition the estimate, 
be sure to include a breakdown of the count of OY by Public Use Microdata Area (PUMA) within South King County;

Method
2.1 The information was queried in Postico. We queried by age group to 




Deliverable 3 - An update of the table “Opportunity Youth Status by Age” located on page 2 of the 2016 report “Opportunity Youth in the Road Map Project Region”; and

Method 
3.1 The required queries were written in Postico and .csv files created from these queries. 
3.2 Each criteria was imported as .CSV file into jupyter notebook. 
3.3 Each criteria was then read into a dataframe and data extracted to produce a comparison 2017 table. 


Deliverable 4 - A visualization that highlights a trend between the 2016 report and current data.
4.1 Pie charts were created showing the relationships between different data sets. 



Resources. 

Jupyter notebooks can be found in the following locations


The SRP has asked that any extra time remaining be used to create the following items:

* Create a choropleth map of the count of OY by PUMA within South King County; 

* For South King County, create a choropleth map that shows the percentage of jobs for workers age 29 or younger out of the total number of jobs per census block; and

* Of the census blocks where jobs for workers age 29 or younger are the majority of employed people, what are a few of the industries that employ this group of people?
